---
title: computer beginner's manual 📔
date: 2022-03-06 06:28:31.858
updated: 2022-05-04 10:24:36.01
url: /archives/computer-tutorial
categories: 
tags: 
- windows
image: https://img.gejiba.com/images/dc28dd597dffccfbf3d871509da52d31.webp
---

If you have already learned the basics of computer operation (switching on and off, clicking on the mouse and keyboard...) The next step you should learn is the principles of computer use.
# General rules
## I. Courage
Some people say I was born to know how to use a computer, but this is actually not true. The key to being able to use a computer is your attitude towards it. You need to treat the computer as a toy, not a tool, and you need to treat the system and software as a game. As long as you don't go messing around with system settings and other dangerous areas, you generally won't break your computer. So with that said: be brave! Be brave and try to gain experience. Don't be afraid of this or that. You cower, you can never see the other side of the victory.
## II. check
There will not be a problem, on [Bing](https://www.bing.com/) search a search. Don't use Baidu anymore, it's all ads and useless miscellaneous information. Remember, look up before you ask.
## III. Remember
When you learn a skill, remember it.
## IV. practice
Practice hard, try more and summarize more
## V. Understand
Never expect the most detailed tutorials, you need to comprehend it yourself and explore the unknown world.
## Big no-no's
1. put the file on the desktop
2. install the software to the C drive
3. download software from the Internet without discrimination
4. naming the software installation directory and system user name in Chinese
# install software
The first problem that plagues many computer beginners is installing software.
Open [pc.qq.com](pc.qq.com), search for the software name in the search bar on the upper right, and then find the software you want in the results, click the <span style="color:red" on the green button on the right ">Small Arrow</span> and then click <span style="color:red">Normal Download</span>. Open the downloaded installation package, 95% of the software can customize the installation location during installation. Create a new folder on the D drive and name it the same as the software name (in English, capitalized). If the software name is in Chinese, please spell it in pinyin with capitalized first letter, without spaces (such as Baofengyingyin: Baofeng), do not add any Punctuation. Select the directory to install. Pay attention to detail options when installing.
## Uninstall software
### First preparations
Click the link below to download Geek Uninstaller
[Click me to download](https://disk.stepbystep.cf/d/geek.exe)
Save it in the D drive and create a new folder (named Geek)
## Uninstall method
Open geek, find the software you want to uninstall, right-click to uninstall. Follow the prompts to uninstall in the pop-up uninstallation window. Then go back to the geek window and click delete. Then close geek after the progress bar is complete.